# notch-customizer
Parametric GCC notching using OpenSCAD. Should support any GCC shell design ideas!

# UPDATE
I have created a version of the script that uses the python library CadQuery. It has a number of improvements, such as import and export of .step files, as well as an additional feature option. I don't think I'll be updating the OpenSCAD version any further. You can find the CadQuery repo [here](https://github.com/SeamusIngram/notch-customizer-cq).

Thanks to Phobs and Goomwaves allowing for software calibration of notch values, it is easier to produce notched Gamecube Controllers, since the notches do not have to be made specifically for one controller, and do not need to be as precise. 3D printing is of great interest to modders for improving controller design. It could potentially lead to controllers with new shell shapes, notches right from the factory, or easily swappable gates. I came up with this script to try and make it so that anybody could easily customize and hopefully get a shell or gate 3d printed with the notches they wanted. Do I think that computer generated, 3D fabricated notches will replace talented modders and OEM shells? No, the feel of well made notches will certainly be better, but I do think if 3D printed gates can be shown to be consistent and relatively durable, it will allow many more people to have access to low cost options.

# Dependencies
You will of course need to install [OpenSCAD](https://openscad.org/downloads.html) to run the script.

The script uses the [Round Anything](https://github.com/Irev-Dev/Round-Anything) utility to round the notch corners. Follow the [installation instructions](https://github.com/Irev-Dev/Round-Anything/discussions/21) to get it set up, or you will not be able to run the script without getting errors. I included a version of that does not require this package to run called [notch_script_no_imports](https://github.com/SeamusIngram/notch-customizer/blob/main/notch_script_no_imports.scad). You can run this version without installing anything else if you don't want to go through the extra steps.

# Parameters
The headline feature is that you can specify the angle of each notch. The notch is created by cutting material from the diagonal of the gate all the way to the desired angle. There is currently no way to have notches that appear as a 'tooth' in the gate (like the infamous [Multishine Notches](https://multishine.tech/collections/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/full-notches-smash-ultimate-gamecube.png)). This means you cannot have more that one notch in each octant of the gate. The angle of a given notch can only be 1-44 or 46-89 degrees, depending on the notch. It should be clear which angles are permitted by each variable. If you try to enter unpermitted angles the script may produce strange results. Change the **angx** values to the desired angles. If you do not want to have a notch in a specific octant, enter 0.

If you are using the version of the script that imports round anything, you can round the corners of the notches by changing **notch_rounding**. Leave it 0 to have sharp corners.

A convex notch will make it so that your stick wants to move into the notch, allowing you to quickly and consistently hit the notch angle. A straight notch will make it so that the intermediate angles between the notch and diagonal are equally easy to pinpoint. Credit to [Kadano's](http://kadano.net/SSBM/GCC/) detailed notching explanations, which helped inform the customization options. To enable convex notches, set **straight** to 0 (set to 1 for straight notches). Increasing the **convexity** will make the curve more pronounced, but too large a value will result in strange geometries. Values between 0.01 and 0.2 are recommended. **convexity_weighting** will move the peak of the notch curve. The value **must be between 0 and 1**. 0.5 will put the peak of the curve at the midpoint of the notch and the diagonal, a value less than 0.5 will put it closer to the diagonal, and greater will move it towards the notch.

The script by default cuts the notches in a straight line from the centre of the gate, but this can result in  notches that 'hook' inwards, which can lead to the stick not comfortably fitting in the notch, or getting stuck. You can **flare** the notch a specified angle, so that this is not an issue. Depending on the notch convexity, a large flare might be desirable.

If the depths of the notch are not to your liking, you can make them as deep or shallow as you wish. You can adjust the depths independently for when there is 1 (single) or 2 (double) notches in a quadrant. This is relevant because I find that a shallower diagonal depth is necessary when using single notches.

# Adding your own Designs
I have included an unmodified GCC shell STL to be customised. If you have your own gates that you wish to notch, the script should work, so long as your gate is centred at (0,0) (the z position shouldn't matter). Keep in mind that the spacing and depth of the notches are for a GCC gate, so if your design is significantly different it may not be compatible. Also be aware the GCC gate is tilted by design approximately 3 degrees, so if your gate has a different offset, then this has to be changed or the notches will not be in the correct locations. Change the variable **off** in the script to the appropriate angle. Make sure to provide your gate as an .stl file, and put the line **s = "path/to/my.stl"** near the top of the script.

# To be tested!
Though I have printed some early prototypes, those were with an FDM printer, which has issues recreating the fine details. I do plan on using a 3d print service to test different materials and fabrication technologies, but that hasn't happened yet. If you try it yourself, let me know how well it works!
